Home.
Although it'll start off
with some sunshine
in the morning,
you'll find cloud coming
along in the afternoon.
That's all, have a lovely day.
BBC News, and good day.
Just 24 hours after what many
are calling Black Monday,
the FTSE 100 Index lost
another 250 points,
leaving businesses
and investors reeling.
Well, that's what happens
when you deregulate.
Global markets have
rallied somewhat
after yesterday's losses
which saw Wall Street close
- a full 508 points down.
- Idiots.
Supporters and families
of Tamil migrants
have gathered outside a London
refugee detention centre
to protest against
the government's plan
to deport them.
We came here because
in our country
our lives are in danger.
We came to keep
our children safe.
A Home Office
spokesman described.
Britain's humanitarian
record as outstanding.
We'll have a report.
Hello, darling.
I was worried this would be...
- Huh?
- Burnt on top.
You all right?
- What?
- What's that?
Well, what does it look
like? It's a button.
- A button?
- Yes.
Somebody just, uh,
put it in the tin.
Honestly. People.
Well, you never know when
it may come in handy.
Hm.
Oh.
Oh, hello. What
have you got now?
Oh, it's a typewriter.
I know what it is, but
you've already got one.
I know. It's not
for me. It's, um...
They don't need it
anymore at the day centre,
so I thought it
would be all right
for the new care home.
And, uh, we can hang on
to it in the meanwhile.
- No.
- Huh?
No.
Why? Uh, I've also
got a desk outside.
- What? Where?
- Well, I haven't brought it in yet but...
- Oh, Nicky. It's too much.
- What?
How will we fit everyone
in at Christmas?
I don't know.
They'll just have to
shove up, won't they?
Your daughter is
seven months pregnant.
- I know.
- She cannot "shove up".
All right.
Well, I'll move it
all to the study then.
Oh, the study.
I bet you have plenty
of room in the study.
- God.
- Let's go and check the study.
Oh, Nicky. Out.
Do you still need all this?
Yes. Why?
What... What's in
all these drawers?
Well, everything
I think. Darling.
A domino, a biscuit
and how many rubber
bands does one man need?
I don't know. I've never
asked the question.
And you've got to find
the right home for that.
Somewhere it will
be appreciated.
Please, Nicky,
you have to let go.
For your own sake.
Oh, I'm so looking
forward to it.
Do you want me to stay with him?
No, no. No, he'll be fine.
Okay, well, maybe
I'll just call him.
Yes. Yes. He's a grown man.
You don't have to wave me off.
Of course I'm going
to wave you off.
Everyone's here.
Ah.
Huh.
Hm.
Nicky,
don't let yourself get...
What?
How you get.
I won't. Of course I won't.
You have a wonderful time.
Home. Ah, Nicky.
- You missed Martin.
- Damn.
Two hearts. Kings.
Uh, hello. Did Martin
say if he'd call back?
Seven o'clock sharp.
Oh.
Thank you, mother.
You're very welcome, son.
Isn't Martin the chap he was
supposed to be going skiing with?
Yes. But Martin
is in Prague now,
helping refugees.
Prague?
Well, precisely.
Hello? It's Martin.
- Can you hear me? Nicky?
- I... I can hear you.
- It's a terrible line.
- I can hear you.
Listen, I'm not sure
you should come.
No, it's all arranged.
I have my ticket.
I have to leave Prague tonight.
I'll have a man called
Trevor Chadwick meet you.
I'm so sorry. It's
just such a mess here.
Happy Christmas.
So, you going?
I am, yes.
Everyone in Prague
is trying to get out.
My son is trying to get in.
Did you speak to Martin?
I did. Uh, turns out
he's not gonna be there.
He's escorting some
refugees out of the country
and then he's heading
back home to London.
- Nicky.
- Look, I have to do something.
It... Is...
And you, of all people,
should understand that.
Isn't that what you taught me?
Well, I can't just sit
here reading about it.
These people need help.
I was never in doubt
that the cause was just,
only whether Prague is safe.
It's only a week.
Uh, I'll be back before
you even miss me.
Nicky, it's not a joke.
I know, I know.
I'm sorry, but I...
I have to go.
Here we are.
- Mr Chadwick.
- This is Mr Winton.
- Evening.
- Now, don't go giving him
a better room than me.
All our rooms are the
best rooms, Mr Chadwick.
Rudi takes good care of us.
Welcome. And Miss
Warriner is in the bar.
Oh, that's Doreen
with one of our refugees.
Over here.
Her husband was picked up
on the street this morning.
Picked up by?
Doreen thinks Nazi spies
doing Hitler's dirty work.
What will happen?
To him, I mean.
Ah, thank you, thank you.
He'll be dumped somewhere.
Maybe alive,
but probably not.
You're Martin's friend,
the stockbroker.
- Nicky. And you must be, uh...
- Unbelievably angry.
So? We've managed to get
Monika into a safe
house for the night
and her daughter on
the plane out tomorrow.
Well, that's something.
So, Martin says you know
your way around a desk.
That's quite an accolade.
It is here.
Paperwork's everything.
And can I just ask, um,
why... why was that
woman's husband taken?
He ran a newspaper in Germany.
Spoke out against the Nazis.
When it got too dangerous,
they escaped over the
border into Czechoslovakia.
- The Sudetenland.
- Where they thought
they'd be safe.
And so they fled to Prague.
All right, I've got a lot to do.
Taking supplies to
the camps tomorrow.
I could use your help.
Can I ask what
brought you out here?
I came 10 years ago
for a study trip.
I just... just love the
place, love the people.
Now they're in trouble.
So I came back.
Are they all from
the Sudetenland?
Mostly.
Some from Austria and
Germany who fled there first.
Drive an hour north of here,
towards the German border,
you'll see the
towns they ran from
hung with Nazi flags.
Dear God.
I know. And there are
thousands more like this.
Ahoj, Hana. This
is Nicholas Winton.
He's here to help out.
Oh.
Hana Hejdukova. Liaison
officer for Czech refugees.
- Hello.
- Your first time
- in Czechoslovakia?
- Yes, yes, it... Yes, it is.
Shame you didn't come sooner.
When there was more of it.
Hana.
Um, can you get the others?
Oh, there we go.
So, you've managed to
get doctors out to them?
Oh, plenty of
doctors already here.
Lots of these children grew
up thinking the worst thing
that was ever gonna happen
to them was piano practice.
Nicky.
Hello.
I'm so... I'm sorry,
I haven't got anything.
Oh, wait,
now hold on a moment.
Chocolate.
Here we go.
Oh, yes,
of course you'd
like some as well.
There we go.
Oh.
Let's see how far we go.
Oh, crikey.
There's only a tiny bit.
And little bit for you.
Little bit for you.
That's it. That's
the last of it.
There you go.
I'm sorry. I'll, um... I'll
bring more, another day.
Foto, foto.
Yes, yes. It's a good idea.
What's your name?
I'm Nicky.
Can you say, "Nicky"?
There we go.
How will these children
survive the winter?
Well, they probably won't.
And there are a dozen
more places like this.
Surely, they should
be the priority,
the children, families.
My remit is to rescue politicals
at imminent risk of arrest.
And I've hardly the money
or manpower for that.
What about the British
government trains?
The Kindertransport?
It's only for children
leaving Germany and Austria.
Not from Czechoslovakia.
Unfortunately, His
Majesty's government refuses
to believe these
people are in danger.
How many children
are we talking about?
Oh, well, we don't know.
That's part of the problem.
Thousands. There's
refugees all over the city.
Jewish people, especially.
But anyone, really,
who doesn't fit
into Hitler's master race.
They're banned from travel
and the UK's
refusing entry visas
to families trying to
get out. It's chaos.
Welcome to the British Committee
for Refugees from
Czechoslovakia.
Hana, get him those
files, would you?
That's quite a filing system.
Yes. Well, if the Germans
send in their spies,
at least they won't be
able to find anything.
In any case,
you're the one who's supposed
to be good with paperwork.
This is you.
Uh, yes, this report
details the political activists
in and around Prague.
What's this?
The Führer's travel
plans in black and white.
He's got his sights
set on half of Europe.
It's just a question of when.
Who else has seen it?
Half of Prague, I imagine.
Meant to intimidate.
Hitler's never made any
secret of his ambitions.
The allies banked
on appeasing him
with a fat slice
of this country.
Now the vicious shit's just
gonna take the rest of it.
The children. We
have to move them.
Says the man who
arrived yesterday.
Well, I'm not suggesting
it's gonna be easy.
A mass transit of children
without money or... or visas?
Well, we'll find a way.
How long are you
here for? A week?
And then you're
back to your bank.
Can we please put
that aside for now?
Well, can we please
be realistic?
We can't give these
people false hope.
Look, we... we have to believe
that this might be possible.
Look...
Let me try. Let... Let... Let me
find out the scale
of the problem.
You know, how many
children, names and ages,
where they're living.
There must be
existing information.
Well, the vulnerable
groups, they do have lists.
But, they are scared
to share them.
Well, then, we need
to earn their trust.
We need those lists.
So, we have to persuade them.
Please, let me try.
Good afternoon. Uh,
my name is Winton.
Nicholas Winton.
Yes, I'm ringing from
the British Committee
for Refugees from
Czechoslovakia.
Well, I'm looking to obtain a
list of vulnerable children.
No, I understand, but we will
have everything in place.
Hello? Hello?
Yes. May I at least
come and meet?
Thank you for seeing me.
How could I resist?
You're offering to get
children out of Prague.
A lot of them.
That is correct.
Hitler will be thrilled
to know you're helping him
eradicate Jews from the region.
With... With respect,
uh, I'm moving children
of all faiths and none.
Separating them
from their families,
perhaps from their religion?
Accommodating them
in safe homes,
with families in foster homes.
Jewish foster homes?
I don't know.
I don't think that's
a question for now.
But it's a question I'm asking.
You are not the only
person at this table
concerned about the
well-being of Jewish children.
Parents in London are preparing
to send their children
out of the city
to safety in the event of a war.
What I'm proposing
is no different.
Your children would be protected
and returned to their
families as soon as it's safe.
Are you Jewish, Mr Winton?
Why would you ask that?
Because I wonder why a
person would undertake
this daunting task for people
to whom he has no
real allegiance,
in a place where
he does not belong.
You're a stockbroker from London
with a comfortable
life, I presume.
You've done some research.
It is a serious matter.
So, why are you doing this?
What I mean is, who
are you, Mr Winton?
Well...
My father's family
came from Germany to
London in the 1870s.
Till just a few months
ago, we were Wertheims.
We went through the last war
with a German
surname and my mother
my mother couldn't stand
doing it again, so...
And my grandparents on
both sides were Jewish.
But I was baptised in
the Church of England.
So,
I don't know what you'd call me.
I would call you a Jew.
I consider myself a European,
an agnostic,
and a Socialist.
There are children here,
living in fields, in the
open, in... in... in mud...
The worst of winter's
still to come
and under the threat
of Nazi invasion.
I have seen this
and I cannot unsee it.
And because I may be able
to do something about it,
I must.
At least try.
The task you propose
requires money and visas.
I don't have them. Yet.
But I'll get them.
If I send these children to you,
I'm placing their
lives in your hands.
A very great responsibility.
So, in the end, Mr Winton,
it is a question of trust.
In Hebrew, there is a saying.
Don't start what
you can't finish.
Hampstead, 7946.
Mother?
Nicky! So good to hear you.
Now, listen, I can't be long.
No, of course not. No, uh...
But are you all right?
Are you safe?
I'm perfectly fine.
You don't sound very convincing.
Just tell me you're
coming home, yes?
Yes, yes, now, listen.
I need you to do
something for me.
Tell me.
And I'm afraid it's
not going to be easy.
Hello, Rudi, I'd like
to send a telegram.
Yes, certainly,
sir, just a moment.
To, Mr Hart, H-A-R-T...
"H-A-R-T."
At Crews Brothers, stockbrokers.
Slight change of plan.
- "Slight change."
- Stop.
Working Prague with Refugees.
Return to office delayed.
He thought you were
official. German.
Oh, no, no, no. I'm sorry. Um...
No, I'm... I'm... I'm
trying to help the families.
- Madam.
- Oh.
Good morning. My name
is Babette Winton.
I'd like to speak to
someone in immigration.
And where have you arrived from?
From Hampstead, on the 24 bus.
I'm a British citizen
seeking your advice.
- Do you have an appoint...
- An appointment? No.
But I'm happy to wait.
Mr Jovak?
Here.
Come this way, please.
Anyone else?
Yes, actually, um,
there was a young girl
that I first saw when Doreen
brought me here, um...
She was about 11 or 12.
She had a very
young baby sister.
Applications are considered
according to protocol...
Oh, protocol. That is
a meaningless phrase.
You repeating it ad infinitum
really doesn't help.
These are
unaccompanied children.
They're children,
they are desperate,
and they are starving.
Like many poorer
British children.
British children are
not facing the threat
of imminent Nazi invasion.
Mrs Winton, there are
other people waiting.
If you don't mind...
Young man, I have something
to tell you. Sit down.
I came here 30 years ago,
from Germany, to marry.
I raised my family here.
My husband is buried here.
And what I have most
admired about this country
is its commitment to
decency, kindness,
and respect for others.
I raised my son in
accordance with these values
and he is in Prague,
now, as we speak,
putting these values
into practice.
I am merely asking
you to do the same.
Is that too much to ask?
Ask your questions, Mrs Winton.
Thank you. Now, I need
you to concentrate
and I need you to be very clear.
She's 12.
They don't know whose
baby it is. No one does.
She is helping care for her.
But what about the parents?
Hm, taken or dead.
Right.
Let's get on.
This is Maidenhead, 3310.
Nicholas and Grete Winton.
Please leave a message.
Hi, Dad.
It's just me checking
in to see you're okay.
We're all right. Had
just been to the clinic,
everything's fine with the baby.
Mum says that you're thinking
about what to do
with the briefcase.
Um...
I know that won't
be easy for you.
I'm here if you
wanna talk about it.
Hope you're swimming lots.
In Munich, Nazis
took my brothers.
My nephews tried to stop them,
12, 10 years old, just boys.
They were beaten and
thrown down the stairs
and taken to the camps.
Eva and Vera.
These are my sister's boys,
Honza and Tommy.
Our family name is Diamantova.
Oh, thank you.
That's Vera.
Eva.
Honza, Tommy.
Oh, what happened here?
She fell. Skiing. She
loves the mountains.
Oh. You like... You like skiing?
I love skiing.
Skiing and swimming.
And swimming? Me too.
- Morning, Rudi.
- Morning.
Would you mind putting a call
through to this number for me?
- Of course. Give me a moment.
- Thank you.
And Mr Winton, you
have a telegram.
Oh. Thank you.
Mr Winton, your call.
Cabin number two.
Nicky, you will not believe
- what they are asking for.
- All right, I'm ready.
A separate visa
application for each child.
An individual sponsor
who must promise to pay
for all the child's needs.
And a fee of 50 pounds to pay
for their eventual return.
- Fifty pounds?
- Yes, I know.
Wait, there's more.
A medical certificate,
uh, and a foster parent
to care for the child
till the age of 17
or until they are
able to return home.
Christ, Nicky!
Yeah.
Nicky?
Mr Slonek. Hello.
Hello, hello. Uh...
I have changed my mind.
Here are, uh, photos,
I believe now you
will help them?
Jan. Petr.
And... Karel. Karel. Karel.
When will they go... please?
What did I miss?
Nicky was just saying
we have to assume
that this is happening.
Yeah.
We are moving the children.
In big groups. By train.
That's a two-day trip,
which would mean
crossing Holland
and the Dutch have
shut their borders
to Jewish refugees.
And they'd have
to cross Germany.
Yes, but they'd only
be passing through
and on British visas.
With British foster
parents waiting.
Well, that is, if you can
find British foster parents.
There are a thousand
children on that list.
The welcome may not be as
warm as you're all imagining.
Then we have to heat things up.
We have to get
the press working.
Get them moving and on our side.
Ordinary people
wouldn't stand for this
if they knew what was
actually happening.
You've a lot of faith
in ordinary people.
I do because I'm
an ordinary person.
So am I.
And me.
Well, there you go.
That's just what
we need, isn't it?
An army of the ordinary.
Nicky, you should go back
to London, raise funds.
Raise a stink.
I can do that. No problem.
What about your job in the bank?
Well, stock market closes
at half past three.
And I'll take care of this end.
- With Hana's help?
- Of course.
Oh, God.
We're actually doing
this, aren't we?
Here's to the children's
section of the BCRC.
- There isn't one.
- There is now.
All those in favour.
Nicky, if I may.
What are you doing? Excuse me.
My God.
Those your socks?
Look, you'll need something
for all that paperwork.
Thank you.
To The Times' letter section.
Dear sir, I have just
returned from Prague,
where I was assessing the fate
of refugees in the city.
Among the many
unfortunate souls,
I found about 2,000 children
living in damp,
overcrowded camps.
Overcrowded, insanitary camps.
Yes, true.
In one of the camps,
several have already
succumbed to disease.
I saw a mother cradling
her dead child.
The thousands
struggling to survive
find themselves facing the
threat of Nazi invasion
and the horrors that will bring.
We are working to evacuate
these children by train
to safety in Britain
as a matter of urgency.
Will people please help with
donations or foster homes?
Please contact Mr
Nicholas G Winton,
the British Council for
Refugees in Czechoslovakia,
Children's section.
20 Willow Road, NW Three...
The wanderer returns!
Crikey, Nicky, Hart's
been apoplectic.
Oh, well.
There goes your bonus.
Mother.
Sorry. Thank you.
I've seen your
letter in the press.
Well, then you
understand the urgency.
The process...
Our first group
consists of 20 children
who are in the most dire need.
They will arrive by train
into Liverpool Street Station
in two weeks' time.
Yes, two weeks, a fortnight.
Which is why we're
asking for your help to
to accelerate the process.
Applications are
dealt with in turn.
The process takes time.
We don't have time.
The German army could
cross the border any day.
Mr Leadbetter
these are your children, yes?
- They are.
- There are families
just like this, just like yours,
living in conditions
you cannot imagine.
The threat of war
hangs over them.
What they have done for you
is to stand against
Nazi expansionism.
All they ask, in return,
is a temporary refuge
for their children.
From whatever horror
is yet to come.
Isn't that the least this
country should offer?
Provided your
paperwork is in order.
It is in perfect order.
Then I'll do my best.
Two weeks, where are we
going to find the money?
We'll find it.
In two weeks?
- And the foster families?
- I know. We'll do it.
Olga Santer... Santer, yes.
And Petr Slonek.
Slonek, Petr, yes.
Right. It's a start.
Jan Slonek, number 174.
Petr Slonek, 144.
Rosa Lenart,
number 529.
Good. Tommy Katschinsky,
number nine.
Michael Lappert, 46.
Landesmann, 19. Next.
Jacob
number twenty-four.
I have a family from Shropshire
that will take a
girl, 8 to 11 years,
and Mr and Mrs Horrell
that will take a boy, just one,
but ideally under
eight and brown haired.
There you go.
Martin.
So sorry I wasn't
with you in Prague.
Not at all.
Anyway, I'm here
now. What can I do?
Well, we've got, uh, 20
children ready to travel
and only eight foster homes.
There's plenty of people
who'd gladly take a child,
but they can't raise
the 50 pounds guarantee.
So, that's what we need
most right now. It's money.
Let me make some calls.
Phone?
Come with me. Coffee?
Nicky, five pounds!
Five pounds, 20 pounds from
the Girl Guides and then...
That's 100 in one day!
And then Picture Post
has raised 90 pounds.
Ready? We've foster families
for, uh, Marlia Keller,
uh, Kristina Novotka... Mm-hmm.
- The Blaufrank twins.
- Yes.
And Jan and Petr Slonek.
And their brother?
No. No one would take all three.
Goodness.
Tell them it won't be long now.
- We'll be moving them soon.
- Nicky,
it's getting harder here.
Two more people from Doreen's
list have disappeared.
I don't know how long we've got.
Come on, then. Good lads.
There you go, good lads.
All right.
Thank God you're
here. I was worried.
I'm so sorry.
All right, all right, all right.
- Petr Slonek.
- Slonek. Petr and Jan.
174.
Thank you.
144.144.
So, that's only one
we're missing, now.
Check them all.
This is our train.
Hello.
141.141.
Come on, then, let's go.
Come on, come on, let's go.
Okay. Okay.
Good girl.
The train at platform eight
is the 9:25 service to Ipswich.
Calling at Shenfield,
Chelmsford, Witham,
Colchester, Manningtree
and Ipswich.
The train now arriving
at platform one
is the delayed 8:47
international train from Harwich
to London Liverpool Street.
Stay... Stay together, everyone.
Very good.
Trevor! [Chuckles] Trevor.
You made it. Bless you. Yes.
Here, let me help you.
This way, this way.
Are you all right?
So, Mr and Mrs
Willou... Willoughby?
Here.
Nina, Olga. Olga Santer.
And Mr and Mrs Goodfellow.
Yes. Here.
- Nina.
- Hello.
Good afternoon.
Jan and Petr Slonek.
- Lovely to meet you.
- Petr?
- We'll look after you.
- Hello.
Frank. Come on, boys,
- let's get you home.
- Thank you.
Mr and Mrs Harland?
Harland?
Hi, Nicky.
Oh, hello, Geoff.
You wanna come through?
Yes, thank you.
All right?
Yes, of course I am.
You don't have to
look so nervous.
I can't help it.
Whenever I see you comin',
I know it's gonna
cost me a fortune.
Oh, all in a good cause.
So, which is it this time?
Samaritans? MENCAP? Abbeyfield?
Oh, something new.
Or rather, old.
Take a seat, Nicky.
Yes. Thank you.
It's about, uh, documents
from the Second World War
- rather relevant for today.
- The war?
- Yes.
- Oh, it's exciting.
It's the, uh, 50th anniversary
of the outbreak coming up.
Yes, I suppose it must be.
Yeah, we're planning a
series of special editions.
- Oh.
- Where did you serve?
Army, Navy?
Oh, well, that's neither
here nor there, is it?
Yeah, I bet you
got some stories.
It's really not about me.
It's actually very
important. It's, uh,
about refugees.
Refugees?
Yeah.
I'm not really seeing
the Maidenhead
angle in refugees.
We wanna be famous.
We wanna be on TV.
Famous, famous Famous, famous.
- Hello?
- Hello.
Guess who this is?
Oh, good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
I'm meeting Mr Martin Blake.
Thank you.
- Oh, certainly.
- Thank you.
If you'd like to follow me?
Yes. Thank you.
Hello, Martin. Thank
you. How are you?
- Nicky.
- Good to see you.
So, you're footloose
for a couple of days?
Yes. Looks like it, doesn't it?
Time to catch up. I'm glad.
Yeah, it's not much
time, I'm afraid,
because, um, I've been given
my to-do list, you know?
Grete's reorganising everything
- before the baby arrives.
- Oh, yes!
A grandfather. You excited?
No, I'm bloody terrified. Why?
- I don't know.
- It'll be fun, I'm sure.
Oh, really? If you say so.
Uh, anyway, at the
moment, we're just, um,
throwing out a lot of old
stuff, you know? And, uh...
- Piles up.
- Yes, it does. Yeah.
You have to be ruthless.
- I know.
- Yeah. Box files and,
uh, records of all the old
charity work, you know?
You've always been so busy.
Oh, yeah.
Do you still volunteer
with the Samaritans?
No, no. They kicked me out.
What? What on earth for?
A woman, uh, phoned in
and told me she was, um
planning on killing herself.
I said, "Oh, dear me, there
must be something else"
"you'd rather be
doing." You didn't.
Yes, I did.
She told me that
she wanted to visit
her daughter in America.
But her doctor warned
her that the journey
would probably kill her.
I said, "Well, that's exactly
what you want, isn't it?"
"To be killed?"
Yeah, well, she
had a good laugh.
We both had a good laugh.
She went off to America.
She saw her daughter.
Had a wonderful time. Came back,
- was happy as a lark.
- Oh.
But, uh, ooh, the Samaritans.
Oh, God bless them.
They gave me a real bollocking,
pardon my French,
and, uh, told me I'd
broken all the rules.
Well, you know, I couldn't
just sit there, could I?
I mean, you're listening
to a bunch of lonely people
when there was something
I could actually say
to help cheer them up.
You might wanna
slow down anyway.
What, with the baby coming.
Why would I want to slow down?
Oh, to enjoy it.
You've done enough.
No. It's never enough, is it?
Did you, uh, need more
time with the wine list?
Oh, yes, um...
They have nice Château Neuf.
We'll have the Chablis.
Oh, dear. Thank you.
Where were we, now? Oh, yes.
When I was clearing
out all the papers,
I came across that old,
uh, scrapbook from Prague.
- Do you remember that?
- I do.
Yes, you're not
throwing that out.
No, I think it could be quite
an important little
record, in its way.
You know, full of history
we should learn from.
- It is.
- Yeah.
Look, maybe the, um,
the Wiener archive might
like it. In London.
Yeah?
I know people on the
board, I could mention it.
Yeah, well, it'll probably
just gather dust there.
I mean, I tried showing
it to the Editor
of the Maidenhead
newspaper, what's it called?
The Advertiser or something.
And, um, it's funny
because when I told him
about the refugees, he said,
"I don't quite get
the Maidenhead angle."
So, uh, he's a bit
of a twit, really.
Well, you might like to
donate it to a museum.
In Prague? Or in Israel?
Most of the children
were Jewish, after all.
Prague.
Well... Yeah.
Tell me something...
Do you ever think
about the children
and what happened to them?
Yes, yes, I do.
From time to time.
Do you?
No, not really.
Well, maybe a little, recently.
It is incredible.
What you achieved.
Oh, I don't think
of it that way.
No, no, no, no, I mean it.
Truly.
I mean, you should be proud.
- Well.
- Save one life,
save the world. You know?
Well, it's nothing
to brag about.
I mean, look at Doreen
and, uh, Trevor.
They did far more than I did
and they took all the risks.
And they actually
stayed in Prague.
You know, Nicky, telling
people isn't bragging.
No.
Hampstead, 7946.
The Germans crossed the
frontier this morning.
They've already taken over
- the ministry.
- Oh, God.
Hitler's motorcade just
went past the hotel.
He was waving.
What does this mean? For us?
I have to go. We need
to check safe houses.
Just be careful.
Doreen? Doree...
It's not safe for them
here. Please, get them home.
Just make sure all the
lists are locked up.
Downing Street has advised
that this development does not
mean that Germany is at war.
The Germans are
understood to have taken
an administrative position
in Czechoslovakia,
replacing the
government in Prague.
Flights from Prague...
What happens now?
We work harder.
Instead of standing here
wringing our hands in despair.
We need more trains.
We do whatever it takes
to make that happen.
We find more homes.
We place the children faster.
We're doing as much as we can.
It's not enough, though, is it?
Look, we cannot
we cannot let these people down.
Well, they tell us the
borders are still open.
The thing is now every
visa has to be approved
and stamped by the Gestapo.
The bastards are all over
bloody everything now.
Mr Winton? Oh, yeah. Oh, hello.
The New Statesman.
Oh, hi.
Uh, shall we speak as we go?
Uh, yes, please.
I don't think I can recall
ever seeing anything
quite so moving.
How many are there? There
must be, uh, nearly a hundred.
Uh, yes, yes. Well
over a hundred.
Hello. Uh, and this is our
largest transport so far.
And this is your fourth train.
Are there more planned?
Yes, absolutely.
The fifth train's
only a few weeks away
with more trains already booked.
The eighth is confirmed, and
the ninth's in preparation
and, um, hundreds of
children ready to board,
but there are thousands
more who need our help
all over Czechoslovakia.
And these are children who are
homeless, they're starving.
And we don't know how long
the border will remain open.
So, we do desperately need
donations and foster homes.
Hello? Nicky.
Nicky, it's me.
Um, look, we have one or two
missing from the next list.
Missing? Yes, I don't know.
Either they panicked or...
or they were arrested.
Uh, right. Well, um, you'd
better give me their names.
This one, ah.
That's her. Lenka Weiss.
There was a baby, too.
Damn.
Nicky,
you must know we
cannot save them all.
You have to forgive
yourself that.
If you want Leadbetter,
he's on his hols.
Week in Eastbourne,
shame about the rain.
Look, I urgently
need three visas
for a transport leaving
Prague next week.
Sorry. Can't help you there.
- Trevor.
- Is everything all right?
Listen, we're three visas short,
Isabel Keller and Eva
and Vera Diamantova.
Is there anything you can do?
I don't know what you're doing.
But if you're doing what
I think you're doing,
I don't want to know.
Train leaves at eight.
- Where is he?
- I don't know.
He should have been
here an hour ago.
- Do you have them?
- Yes.
We have them.
They've left Prague.
Yes.
Why does England
want all these Jews?
Miss Howson from Putney, please.
Diamantova, Eva.
Um, along here,
please. Uh, yes, sir.
Thank you, Mrs MacFarlane.
Mrs MacFarlane?
Hello.
Thank you. There they are.
Thank you. Uh, Diamantova, Vera.
Lovely to meet you.
Mrs Rainford.
Yes. Sorry, excuse me.
Hello, dear.
Hello. Thank you.
Come along.
Are you hungry?
Someone needs to
tell these people
that they've only got
the children temporarily.
They've all got
families to return to.
Our most urgent cases yet.
They're booked on a
train, the ninth train,
in three days' time.
Please, Leadbetter.
We'll do it. Of course.
Thank you.
Hello?
Today's main event.
Germany has invaded Poland
and has bombed many towns.
General mobilisation has been
ordered in Britain and France.
Parliament was summoned for
six o'clock this evening.
The mobilisation of the navy,
army and the air force...
Winton, where're
you going? Winton?
There's nothing you
can do for them now.
Winton!
Excuse me. Excuse me.
Excuse me. Stop pushing.
Look, listen, what's happening
to the international trains?
I don't know any
more than you do.
There's a train due
to leave from Prague.
You need to go to
the station now.
I am staying to help.
No, no.
If they catch you, I can't
protect you. Go, now!
Trevor.
Are you all right?
Yes, I am.
I'm... I'm going to
go back to Doreen.
- Should I...
- You should leave now.
You have your papers.
Go with the children.
See you in London.
Be careful.
You too. Bye.
Hello. Hello, darling.
Welcome back.
Ah. Mm.
Here you go.
Goodness.
Come and see this.
Big surprise.
Well...
You have got a lot done.
Yeah. Do you want a cup of tea?
Hello, Mr Winton.
This is Karl Caplan
at the Weiner Library.
Uh, Martin Blake
gave us your details. Oh.
We have a researcher
who we think
might find your archives
very interesting.
So, if you can, please call
us back on 01-636-7247.
We look forward to hearing
from you. Many thanks.
Um, I just mentioned
it in passing.
- Hmm.
- But, uh,
Martin, uh, he got
straight onto them.
And, uh... You know...
But I don't want it
to go into a library.
Why not?
Oh, well, it won't
teach anyone anything
stuck on the shelf.
Then call them.
Talk to them.
Yes. Well, I'm very grateful.
Well, we look forward
to seeing you.
Thank you.
Tell me.
Well, there's this woman who
wants to see the scrapbook.
She's a historian,
married to some... a
man from Czechoslovakia.
His name is Robert Maxwell.
The newspaper man?
Yes, that's right and, uh,
she's running some
kind of a conference
and she wants to meet me.
Elizabeth Maxwell, she
calls herself Betty.
She's French, apparently.
I'm Nicholas Winton.
Good afternoon. We've
been expecting you.
Oh. Oh, thank you so much
for coming all this way.
Here it is. The scrapbook.
Um, relates back
to some time I spent in
Prague before the war.
It's a little heavy, I'm afraid.
Yeah.
Now, a lot of that stuff
is just touristy stuff.
Postcards and so
on and so forth.
And, uh... Yes, there
are all... That's it.
There're some letters
relating to the
transport of children,
- uh, to Britain.
- Ah.
These are the eight
children you saved?
No, no. It was a
few more than that.
If you turn the
pages, you can see.
I sent out those cards,
uh for people to,
uh, choose, you know?
And, [chuckles] I must
say it was a bit like, um,
it was bit like
selling soap powder,
if you know what I mean.
I couldn't for the life of
me think how else I could,
uh, find enough families
to take in so many kids.
Uh, forgive me but
how many children
are we speaking about?
Oh. Uh... [chuckles] 669.
We successfully placed.
You... You... You
brought 669 children
from Prague to England?
Well, I mean with my colleagues
Doreen Warriner,
Trevor Chadwick,
and Hana and um...
But there were so many other
people involved, you know,
and my own mother.
She was a great help.
And I suppose...
I suppose I'm the
only one left, now.
At least I think I am.
Uh, the children
that are crossed out
are the ones we found homes for.
And the faces that
are not crossed out?
Ah, well, they were
the less fortunate
and, uh, it was a
lottery, I'm afraid.
You wrote to the president
of the United States?
Fat lot of good he was.
I never heard back from him.
Yeah, it's disappointing,
I must say.
Oh, yes, now, these, uh...
Those there are the
names of the children
and their new addresses.
Excuse me, Mr Winton.
This is not exactly
what I was expecting.
I'm a little taken aback
at the scale of your operation.
Oh. Oh, you know,
if we'd had more
money, more time
and more government support
we could've done a
lot more, I think.
Blank pages?
Yeah. That was the last train.
Something happened
to the last train?
Yes, it was the ninth train.
It was our largest group
of 250 children and uh...
It was the 1st of
September, 1939.
The same day that
Hitler invaded Poland.
The very start of the war.
Hana.
Trevor!
Hana!
That was the end of that.
Bloody Hitler,
that's all I can say.
We had hundreds of
foster families waiting,
ready to welcome them, but
yeah.
Merci.
Take milk?
Uh, no, thank you.
Thank you.
That's wonderful. Thank you.
I'm sorry.
Must be very difficult for you
knowing what happened
to those children.
Well, I don't know
what happened, do I?
They were taken off the train,
returned to their families and
that was the end of that.
Surely, I'm almost certain
that they perished in the camps?
Hmm.
Well, you may be right about
those children, Mrs Maxwell.
But I've learned to keep
my imagination in check.
Uh, so I can still be of use
and not go raving mad.
Mr Winton,
around 15,000 children
went into concentration
camps in Czechoslovakia
and, uh, less than
200 of them survived,
and you saved 669.
Oh.
Ah.
Anyway, I'd best, uh,
I'd better be going
because my wife is expecting
me and I don't want...
I don't want to get
into any trouble,
if you know what I mean.
I would like very much
to hold on to your
scrapbook, if I may.
- Well, all right.
- And
with your permission, I would
like to show it to my husband.
I'm sure he will consider
it a very important story.
Oh. Well, thank you.
Thank you.
As many of you will know,
our group was founded in 1965
to encourage friendship
between Maidenhead
and its twin towns
across Europe.
We were met at the
airport by Maria Bechtler
and travelled by coach
to Bad Godesberg,
where we were given a warm...
All right?
Where we were given
a warm Willkommen
by our hostesses.
Thank you, darling.
Don't trip, it's heavy.
Hey, Steve.
Don't strain yourself, will you?
- Here. Let me.
- Give me a hand.
Oh, God.
I can't get over
all the space, Dad.
Hey, you could fit
in a playpen in here.
Oh, no.
It looks lovely, doesn't it?
- Doesn't it?
- Yeah. Doesn't it, Dad?
Yes.
Don't set it on fire.
Nicky!
Well, you did last
year, didn't you?
- I did not.
- Yes, you did
- and the year before that.
- No.
He loves to tease, doesn't he?
- Huh?
- Oh, it looks lovely.
Some of them new, aren't they?
- Well, merry Christmas.
- Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas. Cheers.
It's for you.
Oh.
Oh, this is interesting.
What is it?
It's from the Editor
of the Sunday Mirror.
"We would very much like
to publish a major article"
"detailing the
child evacuation."
But... That's marvellous.
Oh, yes. It says,
"With wider publicity in mind."
"I have been talking"
"to the BBC Television
program me That's Life!"
Surely not.
Yes, they want me
to go in and, uh,
check the historical accuracy.
But that's such a silly show.
- What?
- That's Life!
It's a very silly show.
It is.
Well, it's very
popular, isn't it?
I mean, a lot of
people watch it.
Should I come with you?
Why would you want
to come with me
if you think it's so silly?
Oh.
Hello. Hi, Mr Winton, such
a pleasure to meet you.
Just gonna take
you through here.
Yes. This way.
What exactly am I to do?
Oh, they're going
to explain all that.
- Oh.
- It's just through here.
All right.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Camera six.
Can you come from
the other side?
Thank you.
Thirty seconds to on air.
Okay, and you are just here.
- Couldn't I sit farther back?
- I'm afraid not.
Oh, I'd rather be backstage.
I'm... I'm really, really sorry.
It's just they told
me to put you here
and we're running out of time.
All right.
Who's that?
Hello. Good evening.
And would you want to be
treated by this dentist
in Bath who goes by
the name Mr F Illing?
Esther.
Now, an extraordinary
story has come to light
about a young man who,
many years ago, visited Prague,
and what he found there
was a terrible situation.
Thousands of refugees stranded,
living in desperate conditions,
and at the mercy of
Hitler's imminent invasion.
This young man, whose
name was Nicholas Winton,
decided that something
had to be done.
And so he managed to
rescue 669 children.
This is his scrapbook.
All sorts of
fascinating photographs.
Perhaps you can see...
Here's a photograph of
Nicholas Winton himself,
with one of the
children he rescued.
But at the very back, is a list
of all the children
that he rescued.
Here is Vera Diamantova,
now Vera Gissing.
We found her name on his list.
And Vera is here with
us tonight. Hello, Vera.
Hello. Now, I should tell
you that you are, in
fact, sitting next
to Mr Nicholas Winton.
Hello.
Thank you.
I was reunited with my sister
a few years later.
And your parents?
My father was
tortured, in Terezin.
Mm-hmm.
And then sent to Auschwitz.
And then on to
another lab our camp.
Ah.
A fellow prisoner told me
he thought he'd been
shot on the Death March.
Hmm.
My mother, um, died of typhus.
- So sorry.
- Contracted at Belsen.
But she knew that we were safe.
For a mother, that
is everything.
And, um, my cousins,
Honza and Tommy
were on the last train.
Yeah.
Though I never saw
them again, of course.
Nicky.
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. Very sorry.
Don't.
I'll get it.
Nicky! You've not
called me back.
I left messages!
- Doesn't it follow that I don't want to talk to you?
- Oh, come on, come on, let me do a piece.
No, thanks.
Come on. It's such a
brilliant story, Nicky.
You're a hero. Nicky,
please. Please.
What... It's not about me.
Nicky, come on,
give me a chance.
Maidenhead, 3310.
Hello, is Mister
Winton there, please?
No, he's not available.
Can I ask who's calling?
This is Katinka Blackford
from That's Life!
Oh. Oh, I see.
Two more children, huh?
They... They phoned in
after last week's show.
Yeah.
They so desperately
want to meet you.
You don't have to do it.
Don't I?
I asked them to send the
children's details to us.
I won't have you ambushed again.
Milena...
Well, goodness. This girl's
done very well for herself.
Yeah.
Milena is now Lady
Grenfell Baines.
Oh.
All right.
Who's that? Hanus.
Perhaps it's too much.
Perhaps you've done enough.
No, I...
I started the whole thing, so...
I have to finish it.
Last week was incredible
for us here at That's Life!
We told a story that touched
the hearts of so many people.
We've been overwhelmed
by the response.
One of the people who was
very affected last week
is with us here tonight.
Milena Fleischmann, now
Lady Grenfell Baines,
was also one of the children
that Nicholas Winton rescued.
Milena, I understand you
still have the name tag
that you wore around your neck
when you arrived here
as a little girl.
Yes, I wore this around my neck
and this is the actual pass
we were given to
come to England.
So, I am one of the
children that you saved.
Now, Mr Winton, having
introduced you to Milena,
there's somebody else that
we'd like to tell you about.
Hanus Schnabel was only
11 when he came over here.
We have his passport
with all the official
stamps in it.
I don't know
whether you can see,
but this is how he got here.
And he told us...
"I don't know how my
rescue was arranged.
"I had no idea when I left
my parents at Prague station
"that I would never
see them again.
"My older brother
Franta was supposed
"to come here by
train in September,
"but war broke out and I
never saw him again either.
"I hoped all through the
war that they would survive,
"but they were gassed
in a concentration camp.
"I've often wondered
who was responsible"
"for organising my rescue."
"I would dearly
love to meet him"
"and thank him for
helping us children"
"without any hope
of acknowledgement."
Hanus' name is on
Mr Winton's list.
And Hanus is here
with us tonight.
Oh.
Thank you.
Now, I don't want to rush you.
I know you've waited a
long time for this moment,
but you'll be able to
talk to Hanus later.
However, our evening
isn't quite over.
Can I ask, is there anyone
in the audience tonight
who owes their life
to Nicholas Winton?
If so, could you
stand up, please?
Mr Winton, would you
like to turn around?
You can meet all of these people
properly after the program me.
In the meantime, Mr Winton,
on behalf of all of them,
thank you very much indeed.
See Grandpa?
- Hello. Hello, Vera. Come in.
- Oh, Nicky.
Hello.
- Good, go through. Hello.
- Hi.
What's your name? Hi,
I'm Vera's daughter. Hello.
Nice to meet you.
Hello. Come through.
This is so beautiful.
Oh, this is Nicola.
- Oh, hello. Hello.
- My daughter.
And this is Rebecca,
my little grandchild.
Wow. Hello. Say, "Hello."
Hi. So, you do have a pool.
We do have a pool.
Nicky, turn the music down
a little bit, darling.
Hello, young man. Hello.
Right, be careful, though.
Not too fast.
Oh, it's beautiful, isn't it?
Oh, my goodness.
Darling, you must be
really careful here.
Oh, you have a
lovely pool, Nicky.
Yeah. I like to swim.
- You remember?
- Mm.
You all got towels?
Yes, yes, yes, yes.
Can we go in? Yes!
What's the temperature like?
It's all right if
you're a penguin.
Let's have a little
go, shall we?
Oh. Gotcha!
Oh!
Isn't that lovely.